[Music]
what's up guys my name is Sarah DG
ransom peachy I am here with a lovely
Ryan Serhant yes that is me from million
dollar listing New York and seven like
Serena Tom Bravo and I'm also now on
YouTube Ryan Serhant he has a blog guys
he's been crushing it but today I'm
sharing ten things that you need to know
before moving to New York City I'm
excited to have the expert here with you
he's a real estate broker so number one
how much money should you be expected to
drop when moving here so you're getting
your first apartment maybe you're in
your 20s it's definitely the most
expensive city in the United States and
you're gonna be required to show that
you make either 40 times the monthly
rent and if you don't have an income to
prove you make 40 times the monthly rent
yeah you have a guarantor who makes 80
times the monthly rent so for some
perspective guys I had to drop $11,000
at my first apartment because not only
did I do my first month's rent I did
last month's rent and then I did a whole
wrench for the security deposit and then
the broker fee and then you have yeah
this terrible brokers and their
commissions that which can go up to as
high as 15% of the first year's rent how
many apartments should you be expected
to see I mean do you have to actually be
here to look at apartments you don't
have to be here but I always recommend
that people actually come to New York to
see the apartments even if it's just
through a friend because photos my job
as the broker is to make the photos of
the listing look amazing but sometimes
[Music]
right right that's true no no you cannot
show people between like four and six
apartments if you start seeing more than
six it's hard to remember which ones you
saw you start to get overwhelmed and
you're seen ten or twenty or thirty
apartments you won't remember 75% to the
ones you saw and then you won't remember
which one you lied to I always tell
people I've never helped someone rent an
apartment or buy an apartment who said
to me after moving in Wow
I got exactly what I wanted for less
money than I wanted to spend some one
day here okay
rentals insurance isn't important it is
it is and most landlords and most owners
are gonna require you to actually get it
no it's not that expensive sometimes it
can be as low as $50 a month it can be
as high as a couple hundred dollars a
month depending on how much you're
spending on rents but you want to
protect yourself in the event that you
get broken into if there's a flood if
there's a fire there's so much that can
go wrong in your space you want to
protect yourself you also want to
protect yourself against claims from the
owner so someone just comes from New
York City they only have a week to find
an apartment is that an ample amount of
time how much time does it take to get
the papers sign it and move
it can happen in a week can't honestly
it can happen much quicker than that I
mean when I was doing rentals in New
York City when I first started I would
take somebody out at 10 a.m. show them
apartments until about noon they pick
one we go back to the office they do an
application check their credit sign the
lease get wires from their parents in
Kansas and the whole thing was done by
5:00 p.m. they move in next month what
is a certified check and why is that
important
a certified check is guaranteed by the
bank so if you come to New York do not
come with a personal checkbook no one's
gonna take a personal check remember
that New York City is the city of dreams
it's also the city of scams I don't know
how to rhyme scary with dreams
[Music]
cool neighborhoods that don't break the
bank you have to reset your expectation
right the easy answer to that question
is there's nowhere that is cheap in New
York City Brooklyn Queens or New Jersey
which a lot of people go to as well
because you sometimes you can get a
little bit of a better deal but remember
that rents are more expensive closer to
trains so if you're okay with having a
little bit of a walk to the subway you
can get a much better deal so on the
Upper East Side buy York 1st Avenue or
if you go up into Harlem or Bronx you
can find pretty cheap deals relatively
speaking because you have to walk a
little bit to the train or you can have
an electric skateboard maybe a moped and
that makes everything easier I had a
Vespa I know scooter I had a scooter
when I first came to the city
what is a No Fee apartment and doesn't
actually exist No Fee apartments mean
that you as the tenants right someone's
looking to rent an apartment it doesn't
have to pay the broker fee that's what
that means and so if you go and see a No
Fee apartment and then the broker charge
tries to charge you a fee
just be wary of something like that what
it typically means for me as a broker is
it's collect your own fee sometimes I'm
listening to CC y o F that means collect
your own fee that is a message for
brokers to say that listen your
attendance can come to us and we're not
gonna pay them a fee unless you can get
one and then by all means go and collect
your own thing catcha Texas you grew up
in Texas sort of born in Tex okay you
were born in Texas I was born in Texas
born and raised what I know Texas pride
man what would you have wish to know
before you move to New York say did you
make any mistakes like I don't know
what's some advice that you would give
younger Ryan moving to the city I would
have told myself a lot of things one
like we've been talking about I would
have told myself just really how
expensive it is you just don't realize
how much food costs in New York City how
much a movie costs like what it costs
just to live your day in New York City
everything is expensive buy a juice you
don't expect a green juice to be $12
yeah it's crazy but it is it's crazy
you can definitely live on a budget you
can drink water and eat ramen you know
which is kind of what I did for a little
bit and I would also tell myself that
listen if you're going to be successful
New York is the place to do it because
there's success everywhere so I came to
the city with like a clear idea of what
I wanted to do it wanted to be an actor
I wanted to be in movies and do Broadway
it didn't work out and a lot of people
kind of hit a speed bump like that and
think it's like this huge wall and then
they leave the city because they hate it
right and I'm a real estate broker
talking yeah get Ryan
we're now in my car this is where I
lived my life I sit right here I go to
all my appointments welcome this is an
honor
I feel like this car I feel like Yuri
he's like famous from me Yuri Yuri meet
Sara
it's such an honor Russians that is the
nastily yeah it's nice yeah
so another question okay is an agent
required do you need a broker you're
asking a broker that question I know I'm
sorry is a investment banker required to
buy stocks you can do it on your own but
a professional does this all day every
day and we're really there to help you
sift through the information and help
you understand the type of deal you're
going into manage the lease process
manage the apps process manage all the
headaches and drama and no matter what
will come up during the rental process
for you when you first come here but do
you need a broker no and you can go on
Craigslist you can go on naked
apartments there's lots of different
sites and we can put those into caption
for where people can find good rental
deals just you know like they say buyer
beware
we'll drive so I think it's worthy to
explore apartments because I think a
2000 rental can be on this same street
as maybe even a 20 million dollar
apartment maybe another one's kind of
fun about New York it's not like there's
a bad neighborhood and then a good
neighborhood like take this street for
example this is 11th Street downtown you
know it's right over here
so this apartments can be a couple
thousand bucks a month and then
literally right here I want to take you
upstairs I have a listing at the top
it's a penthouse on the market for
twenty eight million dollars casual so
just a little bit of change so we have a
special treat today I'm excited to see
this that's it it's unlike anything else
you'll probably ever see
[Music]
so this is a three floor penthouse in
the middle of Greenwich Village on the
market for twenty eight million dollars
but the caveat is that it comes with a 1
million dollar design credit because it
is unfinished I'll take two good
[Music]
so this apartment also comes with the
entire roof deck for the building they
have both sides you have the north
facing side looking up towards the
Empire State Building
MetLife and then you have the south
facing side looking down towards Freedom
Tower
[Music]
Brian thank you so much first imparting
your wisdom but also showing off the
sick pad only 28 million
out there come on guys so Ryan will be
linked in the description below thanks
so much for hanging out or stay pichi
pichi
[Music]
you